---
layout: syllabus
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "B. Martin, Pr"
title: "Sécurité"
teaser: "We present the concepts of security and privacy from differents points
of view. "
categories:
  - S2
tags:
  - OPT
ects: 3
schedule: "24h"
# website: "#"
email: "bruno.martin@unice.fr"
#
# Styling
#
image:
  thumb: "header-syllabus-unsplash-thumb.jpg"
  homepage: "header-syllabus-unsplash.jpg"
#  caption: "https://unsplash.com/"
  url: "https://unsplash.com/"
header:
  image_fullwidth: "header-syllabus-unsplash.jpg"
#    caption: This is a caption for the header image with link
  caption_url: https://unsplash.com/  
---

### Description ###

We start by a general overview of computer and network
security, its threats and its challenges. We next turn ou attention to
the way one can design security protocols. To that end, we present
public and secret key cryptography, how to design hash functions and the
way to securely transmit a key, with (or without) the use of
certificates. We illustrate this design by presenting the behavior of
the *Transport Layer Security* protocol which encapsulates `http` for
instance. We also survey the recent topic of privacy and focus on web
tracking and protection mecanisms. We end the lecture by presenting the
tools and the ways to audit the security.

### Course ###

The course is made of 12 hours of lectures, 9 hours of exercises and 3
hours of laboratory over 8 weeks. It counts for 3 ECTS. Maximum number
of students: 24.

### Prerequisities ###

-   Undergraduate mathematics (basic number theory, basic group theory,
basic probability theory)
-   Computer networking basics (network protocols, OSI layers)

### Evaluation ###

-   A lab report (1/3 of the final mark)
-   A final written examination (2/3 of the final mark)

### References ###

-   B. Martin, Codage, cryptologie et applications, PPUR, 2004
-   A. Noordergraaf, How hackers do it, Sun Blueprints, 2002
-   D. Salomon, Foundations of Computer Security, Springer, 2006
-   W. Stallings, Cryptography and network security, Prentice Hall, 2006
-   FreeBSD Handbook, chapter 14, Security
-   Guide to the Secure Configuration of RH Enterprise Linux
-   Linux security HOWTO

